Last week you learned about
a classification algorithm known as
naive bayes.
This week you're going to
learn about vector spaces and
specifically you will learn what type of
information these vectors could encode.
You'll see different types of applications
that you can use with these vector spaces
and you'll see different types of
algorithms you'll be implementing.
Let's take a look at an example.
In this video I'm going to introduce
you to the general idea behind
vector space models.
You're going to see their advantages
along with some of their applications in
natural language processing.
So suppose you have two questions,
the first one is, where are you heading?
And the second one is where are you from?
These sentences have identical
words except for the last ones.
However, they both have
a different meaning.
On the other hand say you have
two more questions whose words
are completely different but
both sentences mean the same thing.
Vector space models will help you identify
whether the first pair of questions or
the second pair are similar in meaning
even if they do not share the same words.
They can be used to
identify similarity for
a question answering,
paraphrasing and summarization.
Vector space models will also allow you
to capture dependencies between words.
Consider this sentence,
you eat cereal from a bowl,
here you can see that the words cereal and
the word bowl are related.
Now let's look at this other sentence, you
buy something and someone else sells it.
So what it's saying is that someone sells
something because someone else buys it.
The second half of the sentence
is dependent on the first half.
With vectors based models,
you will be able to capture this and
many other types of relationships
among different sets of words.
Vector space models are used in
information extraction to answer
questions, in the style of who,
what, where, how and etcetera.
In machine translation and
in chess sports programming.
They're also used in many,
many other applications.
As a final thought I'd like to share
with you this quote from John Firth,
a famous English linguists, you shall
know a word by the company it keeps.
This is one of the most
fundamental concepts in NLP.
When using vector space models the way
that representations are made is by
identifying the context around
each word in the text and
this captures the relative meaning.
Eureka, vector space models allow you to
represent words and documents as vectors.
This captures the relative meaning.
You learn about vector space models and
you have seen different types of
applications where these
vector space models are used.
In the next video you will
build them from scratch and
specifically you will see how they
are built using cooccurrence matrices